hi this is presto Walker here are three
puzzles that prove mathematicians
believe in ghosts puzzle one a father
leaves 17 goats to his three sons his
will specifies that one half of the
goats go to the oldest son one-third to
the middle son and 1/9 to the youngest
son but there is a problem 17 cannot be
split evenly to any of these fractions
so how did the sons divide up the goats
fairly according to the father's wishes
puzzle 2 you have several identical
bricks and a ruler you want to measure
the distance between two opposite
corners of a single brick without using
any formulas so you cannot use the
Pythagorean theorem for example how can
you do it puzzle 3 at 6 a.m. a monk
started climbing a mountain and he
reached the top at 8 p.m. where he slept
the next morning at 6 a.m. he descended
on exactly the same path and reached the
bottom at 8 p.m. he may have had a
different speed and he did not use
necessarily the same speed during the
entire trip a mathematician observed
that even with these considerations
there must be a spot on the mountain
that the monk occupied at exactly the
same time on both days why is this so
give these puzzles a try and remember
these are three puzzles that prove
mathematicians believe in ghosts when
you're ready you can keep watching the
video and I'll present the solutions
alright puzzle one how can 17 be divided
into 1/2 1/3 and 1/9 the trick is to add
a ghost goat that makes the total 18
one half of 18 is 9 1/3 of 18 is 6 and
1/9 of 18 is 2 the oldest son gets 9
goats the middle son gets 6 goats and
the youngest son gets 2 goats and now
here's the neat part we can now let the
ghost goat disappear and now the sons
had divided the goats according to the
father's wishes puzzle 2 how can we
measure the distance between opposite
corners of a single brick without using
the Pythagorean theorem what we'll do is
we'll create a ghost brick we'll stack
two bricks on top of each other and put
a third brick next to the bottom one you
can see there's a spot left
for a fourth brick which is now a ghost
brick because this brick is not really
there but we can measure the distance
between opposite corners of this ghost
brick and that will give us the answer
no formulas required in the third puzzle
a monk goes up a mountain and then he
climbs back on the same path so how do
we know that there's a spot that he
occupies at exactly the same time on
both days well what we could do is
instead of having the trips take place
over two days we'll imagine as the monk
is climbing up the mountain we'll have a
ghost which travels exactly the same
path the monk would take going down but
we'll imagine this takes place on the
same day this is possible because both
trips start at 6 a.m. and end at 8 p.m.
so when the monk is climbing up his
ghost goat is his the ghost monk is
coming down and necessarily at some
point the two paths will have to cross
so this is a spot on the mountain that
the monk occupies at exactly the same
I'm on both days did you solve these
three puzzles thanks for watching please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
at pressure Walker and if you like this
video please check out my books there
links in the video description